(THEME MUSIC PLAYING)
(ROARS)
(NARRATOR READING)
(KION READING)
(BABOONS SCREAMING)
Baboons, you gotta
come down.
It's not safe up there.
We're dry up here.
(WHOOPS)
We'll come down
when the rain stops.
This guy's
un-Bunga-lievable.
Oh, baboons.
(BABOON WHOOPING)
(BESHTE GRUNTS)
Kion. The tree's gonna go.
And I don't wanna
go with it.
(GRUNTING)
(WHIMPERING)
Calm down!
As long as we stay dry,
whoo-whoo,
everything will be fine.
No, it won't. Your tree's
about to fall off a cliff.
(GASPS) He's right. Look.
(SCREAMING)
No! Stay on this side
of the tree!
(GRUNTS AND GROANS)
Can't hold it much longer.
(GRUNTS)
Harpana!
(WHOOPING AND SHRIEKING)
I got to get him
out of that tree.
Beshte! Think you can take
a little more weight?
(GRUNTS)
Sure. But whatever
you're gonna do, do it fast.
Bunga, climb up there and
scare those baboons down.
With pleasure! Zuka zama!
(GRUNTING)
Okay, baboonies,
you can thank me later.
Ah.
(ELEPHANT TRUMPETING)
(WHOOPING AND SCREAMING)
I got you.
(SCREAMS)
(SCREAMING)
Come on outta there,
baboonie.
(GRUNTING CONTINUES)
Whoa.
Oh. You can get off now.
We'll get down... (WHOOPS)
when the rain stops.
Ugh. Baboons.
Whew. I'm beat.
Oh. Don't get
too comfortable.
There's bound to be
another storm.
Ohh, another one?
We're still cleaning up
from the last one.
BESHTE: Hmm.
Who knew a tree
full of baboons
would be so heavy?
(GROANS)
Okay, everybody
take a breather.
You've earned it.
There you go, little guy.
(CHUCKLES)
You're welcome.
(BIRDS SQUAWKING)
KION: Heyvi kabisa!
Storm's caused
so much destruction.
Grandfather?
Yes, Kion. I'm here.
I was thinking.
The rains cause
so many problems
for the Pride Lands.
What if I used the Roar to
blow the big rain storms away?
(LAUGHS)
The rains are part of
the Circle of Life, Kion.
The Pride Lands will need
that water for the dry season.
I guess. But it'd be
a lot easier...
Kion. The easy solution
is not always
the best solution.
Yes, Grandfather.
(RUMBLING)
Oh, no.
(YAWNS)
(MUFFLED) Beshte! Let me out!
Hmm?
(GASPING)
(SIGHS)
It smells like fish in there.
Guys, get up! Break's over!
What's the kerbubble, Kion?
Oh.
(BOTH COUGHING)
Ah.
(GRUNTS)
What's going on?
There's never been
a river here before.
Ono! Take a look!
Affirmative.
(GASPS) Hapana!
Lake Kiziwa! It's too full.
The water's pouring out!
(GRUNTS) That last rainstorm's
still causing trouble.
It's getting worse, Kion!
Lion Guard!
We need to do something
before all that water
floods the valley.
Hey, I've got an idea.
(ALL GRUNTING)
Push, Beshte!
We gotta block it out!
Twende Kiboko!
(ALL GRUNTING)
Poa!
(SIGHS) We did it!
Nice!
(CHUCKLING) Oh, my!
Whose idea was this?
Mine. Pretty awesome, huh?
Impressive.
What a great idea.
And you know
what makes this
a great idea?
It was so simple
to do.
Quick and easy.
That's the way to do it.
I don't know, Bunga.
The easy solution's
not always the best solution.
Well, it sure worked
with this dam.
Uh-oh. Now look at it.
What do we do about that?
Hmm. Put a stick in it.
That's my advice.
Hey, it worked.
What a good idea.
He gives great advice.
Good idea? Great advice?
You know you're
talking about Bunga, right?
Don't be so surprised.
Honey badgers,
they are the Pride Lands'
smartest animals when...
Oh, oh, oh. Wait a minute.
You hear that, everybody?
I'm the Pride Lands'
smartest animal.
Rafiki said so. I'm smart
and I give good advice.
Say, wait till my uncles
hear about this.
Hey, Bunga! Wait up!
Yes, yes. Honey badgers
are the smartest
when they think
before they speak.
(GROANS) But if they do not,
whoo-hoo-hoo!
Total disaster! (LAUGHS)
Hmm, where'd everybody go?
Eh?
(MUMBLING A SONG)
Bunga! Bunga, wait up!
VOICE: Um, a little help here?
Uh-oh.
(GRUNTING)
Oh, we forgot
to flip the turtles.
Sorry about that.
Oh, thank you.
Phew.
There you go, little guy.
Well, the turtles
are all flipped.
We forget anything else?
Argh. The porcupine brothers.
Though that'd be easier
if we had Bunga to help.
Ono, go find Bunga.
(HUMMING)
Affirmative.
(ALL GRUNTING)
There you go, guys.
See you next time.
PORCUPINE: Thanks.
Every storm
it's the same thing.
You'd think they'd just move.
They like it here. It's cozy.
Yeah, but how cozy
do you really want to be
when you're a porcupine?
PORCUPINE:
Ow, watch those quills!
Okay, who wants to crawl in
and make sure
Ushari and the cobras
aren't stuck in the mud?
Don't look at me.
(SIGHS) It's times like this
we really need Bunga.
Yeah, but he's...
ONO: Everyone!
You gotta see what's going on
at Hakuna Matata Falls!
Whoa!
KION: Heyvi kabisa!
What is all this?
Rafiki said he's the wisest...
Of all the animals
in the whole Pride Lands.
Oh. Amazing.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Not so fast, kids.
If you want to see him,
you've got to wait in line!
See who?
BOTH: Bunga the Wise.
The Sage of
Hakuna Matata Falls.
ALL: The what?
Seriously?
(UPBEAT MUSIC PLAYING)
BOTH: ♪ There's
one honey badger
♪ Who's as smart as can be
♪ He's smarter than Pumbaa
♪ He's smarter than me?
♪ It may sound kooky
but it came from Rafiki
♪ He's one small cookie
♪ He's amazingly geeky
BOTH: ♪ His IQ
is off the charts
♪ He outthinks the best of us
♪ But he's also got heart
BOTH: ♪ So he'll think
for the rest of us
♪ So
♪ Step right up
Meet Bunga the Wise
♪ The wisest of all
And he loves to advise
♪ If you're feeling down,
don't know what to do
♪ Let Bunga the Wise
♪ Do your thinking for you
♪ Kid, that's a cue
♪ Come on, Bunga,
you know what to do
♪ Guess who?
♪ So step right up
♪ Meet Bunga the Wise
♪ The wisest of all
And I love to advise
♪ If you're feeling down,
don't know what to do
♪ Let Bunga the Wise
♪ Do your thinking for you
♪ Go on, ask any questions,
I'll tell you my thoughts
♪ Those stripes don't suit you
I'd change it to spots
♪ That beard, it looks out
You gnus ought to shave 'em
♪ Give me your grubs
I'll be sure to save 'em
♪ He can solve almost
any problem conceivable
♪ I got so much wisdom,
it's un-Bunga-lievable
ALL: ♪ So
♪ So step right up
Meet Bunga the Wise
♪ The Wisest of all
And I love to advise
♪ If you're feeling down,
don't know what to do
♪ Let Bunga the Wise
do your thinking for you
ALL: ♪ Step right up
Meet Bunga the Wise
♪ The wisest of all
And he loves to advice
♪ If you're felling down,
don't know what to do
♪ Let Bunga the Wise
♪ Bunga the Wise
ALL: ♪ Do your thinking
for you ♪
(ALL CHEERING AND WHOOPING)
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Nice of you to drop by.
(GRUNTS)
Bunga the Wise,
everyone thinks I'm stuck up
because my head's
so high up in the sky.
What do I do?
Simple. Tie a knot
in your neck.
Bunga the Wise,
how can I keep
from being scared
whenever I see a hyena?
That's easy. Just...
(WHISPERING)
Mmm-hmm. Mmm.
Thanks.
Mmm, Bunga the Wise,
suppose I see a pile of rocks
with a leak in it.
Where do I find a stick?
Just climb up a tree
and grab one.
Trees are full of sticks.
All right, all right.
Everybody back in line.
No more freebies.
Don't worry. You'll all get
your turn eventually!
Come on, kid, er, I mean,
Your Sage-iness.
Uh, okay. Talk you all soon!
(CLEARS THROAT)
Next!
(BUG CHIRPING)
(GULPS) Ah.
You're too kind.
Now, if you'll follow me...
KION: Hey! Bunga!
Uh-oh.
Whoa. Whoa.
What part of "wait in line"
did you kids not understand?
Give me a break, Timon.
We need to talk to Bunga.
(CLEARS THROAT)
It's Bunga the Wise.
Oh, hi, guys.
Didn't see you there.
Come on in.
Fine. Make it fast.
We got lots of folks here
waiting their turn!
Okay, I'll just be out here.
Bunga, what's going on?
Are you seriously giving
all of those animals advice?
That's right.
You heard Rafiki.
I'm super-smart.
Hello?
Remember?
I had that great idea
to stop the lake
from flooding.
I guess.
So, then, I had
an even better idea.
I could share my great ideas.
I can help everybody
in the Pride Lands
by telling them what to do.
Ow.
Seriously?
Bunga, you already
help the Pride Lands.
You're on the Lion Guard.
You're the
Pride Lands' bravest!
But I'm also the smartest!
It's difficult
being so gifted.
Bunga...
Okay, okay. Time's up.
Folks outside
ain't gettin' any smarter.
Thanks for coming, guys!
Next time
make an appointment!
Ow.
FULI: If you ask me,
Bunga's the one animal
in the Pride Lands
who should not be
giving advice.
Why's that, Fuli?
He did figure out how to keep
the lake from flooding.
Yeah, he did.
But I just got a bad feeling
about all this.
Heyvi kabisa!
(MUFFLED CRIES)
I didn't think ostriches
really did that.
They don't.
And I don't think that one
likes it very much.
Come on.
(ALL GRUNTING)
(GASPS) Oh.
Thank you.
Hard to breathe down there.
(SPITS)
Ugh.
Sand. Ugh.
(SPITS)
Watch where you're spitting.
(GROANS) Tall birds.
(SHUDDERING)
Are you okay?
I am now.
(COUGHS) Thanks.
So why'd you stick your head
in the sand
in the first place?
Bunga the Wise said
it was the best way
to avoid seeing hyenas.
And he's the smartest
animal there is.
(SCOFFS)
Don't say it.
(GASPS) Hapana!
Those pink flowers
will make them sick.
Bushbucks! Stop!
I got 'em. (GRUNTS)
Hey! Our flowers!
You shouldn't eat these.
These flowers
will make you sick.
But Bunga the Wise said
pink flowers
were the tastiest.
And he's the smartest
animal there is.
I know what you're thinking.
VOICE: Help!
Uh, now what?
Help!
Hang on!
We'll help you out.
Please.
I don't like high places.
Fuli, pick a horn.
Beshte, you say when.
Don't worry.
They hardly ever
drop anybody.
Hardly ever?
Oh.
Pull!
(BOTH GRUNTING)
(GROANING)
(GASPING)
Thank you so much.
How'd you get trapped
down there?
It wasn't advice from
Bunga the Wise, was it?
Why, yes, it was.
I asked him about the fastest
way across the canyon.
And he just said to jump.
Okay, go ahead and say it.
I told you Bunga shouldn't be
handing out advice!
Yeah. We've got to
tell him to stop.
Do we have to
stand in line again?
I don't think so.
Look!
♪ Bunga, Bunga
Ho, make way, make way
♪ He's the wisest we know
♪ Make way
for Bunga the Wise
♪ Make way for Bunga the Wise
♪ Bunga, Bunga, hey,
Bungy, Bunga, ho
♪ Make way, make way,
he's the wisest we know ♪
(SINGING CONTINUES)
Catchy! I like it!
Now I've seen everything.
Oh, come on.
Oh, hi, guys.
Don't stop.
Bunga, what are you doing?
Bunga's advice is so popular
we decided to take it
on the road.
Bunga the Wise
"The Pride Lands Tour"!
I advise you
to come along with us.
Sounds like fun.
Sounds like trouble.
Bunga, you've got to
stop this.
We've got enough to do
trying to deal
with the rainstorm.
Your bad advice
is making things worse.
(GASPS) Me?
Bad advice?
What?
(BOTH GASP)
No!
Rafiki said Bunga was smart.
You see, Kion?
Everyone loves my advice.
They wouldn't know
what to do without it.
Am I right?
Yeah.
That's right.
We're clueless.
And Bunga gives good advice.
You said it, Pumbaa.
He's even given
the Lion Guard advice.
Anybody remember
a little thing called
the dam?
Yes! Whoo!
Love it!
That's right!
His idea. His advice.
Problem solved. The End.
(RUMBLING)
And now I have some advice.
Run!
(ALL SCREAMING)
We've gotta move
those animals to safety.
Lion Guard, follow me!
(SIGHS)
(PUMBAA WAILING)
Run Bunga, run!
Don't be a mook, kid!
Head for the hills!
I'm a member of
the Lion Guard.
I can't let my friends down.
Hey guys! Wait for me!
Split up!
You can stop fanning me now!
Everyone, follow me!
Now!
Zebras, stay close
to each other
and follow Kion.
Twende kiboko!
(PANTING)
Got ya.
Hurry! Into the canyon!
Ah!
Come on, kid!
Run! Take my advice!
Don't look back!
(ANIMALS GRUNTING)
Ono! Which way?
Oh, no.
Left! Go left!
This way, everybody!
To the left!
A dead end! Oh, no!
Kion!
(GASPS)
Oh, no. Look out!
(ALL GROANING)
Kion, the walls
are too steep to climb.
What do we do?
Don't ask Kion.
Ask Bunga the Wise.
Bunga the Wise!
What do we do?
Tell us.
Uh...
I don't know.
Kion's the one
who always knows
what to do
with this kinda stuff.
Right, Kion?
Right. But it's not exactly
quick and easy.
Now, everyone!
Get behind me!
He means it! Get behind him!
Get behind him!
(ROARING)
(ALL CHEERING)
(SIGHS)
I like this view.
Me, too.
Yeah. This is a great place
to rest up after a rain storm.
Until the next one.
Oh. Mmm-hmm.
(EXHALES)
(MUMBLING A TUNE)
That spot with the flowers,
it looks like the perfect
place to bask in the sun.
I would not lie there,
if I were you.
Pfft. Come on, Rafiki.
I can tell
the best spots to bask.
I'm the smartest
animal around.
You said so yourself.
You did not hear
everything I said.
Honey badgers
are only smartest
when they think
things through.
Think things through?
Uh. Guess I'm not
so wise after all.
Oh, well.
I can live with that.